# .NET Core 3.1.0

.NET Core 3.1.0 comprises:

* .NET Core Runtime 3.1.0
* ASP.NET Core 3.1.0
* .NET Core 3.1.100

See the [Release Notes](3.1.0.md) for details about what is included in this update.

## Docker

The [.NET Core Docker images](https://hub.docker.com/r/microsoft/dotnet/) have been updated for this release. Details on our Docker versioning and how to work with the images can be seen in ["Staying up-to-date with .NET Container Images"](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/staying-up-to-date-with-net-container-images/).

## Installing .NET Core on Linux

See our [Linux package manager](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/install/linux-package-manager-rhel7) pages for details on installing .NET Core using package managers.

### Install using Snap

After [configuring Snap on your system](https://docs.snapcraft.io/installing-snapd/6735), run the following command to install the latest .NET Core SDK.

`sudo snap install dotnet-sdk --channel=3.1/stable --classic`

When .NET Core in installed using the Snap package, the default .NET Core command is `dotnet-sdk.dotnet`, as opposed to just `dotnet`. The benefit of the namespaced command is that it will not conflict with a globally installed .NET Core version you may have. This command can be aliased to `dotnet` with:

`sudo snap alias dotnet-sdk.dotnet dotnet`

**Note:** Some distributions require an additional step to enable access to the SSL certificate. If you experience SSL errors when running `dotnet restore`, see [.NET for Linux Distributions](../../../linux.md) for a possible resolution.

## Windows Server Hosting

If you are looking to host stand-alone apps on Servers, the following installer can be used on Windows systems.

### Windows

You can download the Windows Server Hosting installer and run the following command from an Administrator command prompt:

* [dotnet-hosting-3.1.0-win.exe][dotnet-hosting-win.exe]

This will install the ASP.NET Core Module for IIS.

[//]: # ( Runtime 3.1.0)

[//]: # ( WindowsDesktop 3.1.0)

[//]: # ( ASP 3.1.0)
[dotnet-hosting-win.exe]: https://download.visualstudio.microsoft.com/download/pr/fa3f472e-f47f-4ef5-8242-d3438dd59b42/9b2d9d4eecb33fe98060fd2a2cb01dcd/dotnet-hosting-3.1.0-win.exe

[//]: # ( SDK 3.1.100 )
