# 2.0.0 Preview 1 Known Issues

This document lists known issues for *.NET Core 2.0.0 Preview 1* and *.NET Core SDK 2.0.0 Preview 1* which may be encountered during usage.

## Ubuntu installers not available on CDN

Running an apt-get to install .NET Core 2.0-preview1 on Ubuntu or Linux Mint will not work presently as we are working through technical issues with making the packages available on the feed. We will update and make the .NET Core 2.0-preview1 packages available on the Ubuntu feed once we have a resolution. 

## 	Running 1.0 first run experience after installing 2.0 CLI

*Tracking issue*: https://github.com/dotnet/cli/issues/6550
*Description*: This fails because the 1.0 first run shells out two dotnet commands to do dotnet new and dotnet restore. Because this is a simple shell out, the 2.0 CLI ends up being picked up to execute the commands. However, in the 1.0 CLI, we invoke dotnet new passing –f netcoreapp1.0 and netcoreapp1.1 and the 2.0 CLI no longer carries these templates, which causes the command and the whole first run to fail.
*Workarounds*:
* Run dotnet 1.0 first run experience before installing the 2.0 CLI by simply invoking 'dotnet new' in the command line after installing VS.
* Uninstalling the 2.0 CLI and then running 'dotnet new'.
* Putting a global.json pointing t 1.0 CLI in the root of the drive where you are executing the 1.0 command to trigger first run. Remember to remove it after the first run has been executed.
* Do nothing, in which case the first run will continue to run for 1.0 CLI and restore will hit the web.