# Release Notes

## .NET Core 1.1.0 Preview 1 released 10/24/2016

.NET Core 1.1.0 Preview 1 and SDK 1.0.0 Preview2.1 are available for [download](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/master/release-notes/preview-download.md) and testing.

Have a look at [.NET Core 1.1.0 Preview 1 Known Issues](1.1.0-preview1-known-issues.md) document as there are a few things to be aware of before installing.

### Linux Distros Added

Support has been added for the distros highlighted below.

* Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.2
* CentOS 7.1+
* Debian 8.2+
* Fedora 23, _**24**_
* Linux Mint 17.1, _**18**_
* OpenSUSE 13.2, _**42.1**_
* Oracle Linux 7.1
* Ubuntu 14.04 & 16.04
* Mac OS X 10.11, _**10,12**_
* Windows 7+ / Server 2012 R2+
* Windows Nano Server TP5

### .NET Core API

Changes to the .NET Core API surface are can bee seen in the [1.0-1.1-api-diff](1.0-1.1-api-diff/1.0-1.1-api-diff.md)

### WCF

XmlSerializer, DataContractSerializer, and DataContractJsonSerializer can now serialize or deserialize objects at runtime without using IL emit or code generation. Prior to this release, in Universal Windows Platform (UWP) applications, these serializers can only be generated at compile time by .NET Native toolchain. This new feature, therefore, is especially useful for UWP applications in scenarios where pre-generated serializers at compile time is hard to achieve when runtime information is required for seraization. For example, constructor XmlSerializer.ctor(Type, XmlRootAttribute) is now supported on UWP.

### ASP.NET Core

* Please see the [ASP.NET Core release page](https://github.com/aspnet/home/releases/1.1.0-preview1) for details on fixes from ASP.NET Core, MVC, Entitiy Framework Core and others.

### Commits for 1.1 Preview 1

[1.1 Preview 1 commits](1.1-preview1-commits.md)

### Contributors

The list of contributors can be found in the [1.1.0 Preview 1 Contributor List](1.1.0-preview1-contributor-list.md)


